So with that,
we've got three green checks.
Two of them we already started out with.
One of them was we got for free,
which is none of our access keys for
this user are over a year old,
which can confirm, right?
Our root user has MFA.
We have MFA, three green checks,
feels good to be secure in this case.
So now we've done the kind
of administrative
upon unintended pieces of this.
We've got the root user, we've got the
administrative user, we'll have to create
a user to some will be created for
us, that's fine as we go through.
But for that we're kinda done with
the the account setup piece of this.
So with that, we're gonna move into
talking a little bit about S3.
S3 solves the first of
a series of problems for us.
Which is despite all of our hard work
fighting with JavaScript and the DOM and
CSS scoping, so on and so forth,
the end of the day, our applications
are a series of text files that
we need to put onto the internet.
S3 is a place where you can take things,
put them on the cloud,
the cloud just being
somebody else's computer,
get them off of your computer
onto somebody else's computer.
It's hooked up to the internet.
S 3 stands for Simple Storage Service,
say that three times fast.
And it's basically a way that you
can take anything in our case is
gonna be our JavaScript asset for
images, video so on and so forth.
Right and it brings a lot to the table
despite its very unassuming name.
So, let's just kind of get
a conceptual idea around this.
We have our S3 account,
which is the one that our administrator
has right now has a series of buckets.
It's a very technical term.
In that bucket, you put objects or things.
So now you have a bucket full of things.
In this case,
it's gonna be our client side assets.
But like I said, it could be anything and
you can figure out,
you can put stuff in the bucket.
You can take stuff out of the bucket, you
can list all the things in the bucket, so
on and so forth.
We can also host web pages and
web applications out of our buckets.
So that's really great.
Now there's a little bit more to it,
it's infinitely scalable
yeah sounds good right.
I think you can get like there's stuff
like the maximum file size you can put
in there as I think five terabytes.
From doing that from memory,
again the joke about
JavaScript is going large at some
point look at code splitting.
If you're looking at five terabytes in
the eye it's time to start thinking
about that.
It's got three nines of availability and
we'll talk about how to make that a little
bit better later on and it's built for
four nines,
which means 99.99% of the year it is up.
And more impressive is the 11
nines of durability, right?
Which means despite how much you might
regret some of the code in those
applications, S3 will not
be the one that loses it.
Which is really great especially for
some more for assets, like video or
something along those lines like they do
replicate it across multiple data centers,
so on and so forth.
As some of the features almost none
of which will be using versioning.
So if you take a file or
a object in your bucket, and
you replace it with another one,
you can have all the previous versions.
Obviously you'll pay for that, right?
I mean in money not in consequences.
But you can have versions.
You can have encryption,
security and all those things.
For us, we are going to kinda have
Git as our kinda versioning tool.
And we don't need to encrypt our client
side assets cuz the whole goal is to
get those JavaScripts to
the browsers to be compiled and run.
But for different kinds of things
that you might have to do,
those are kind of available.
And there are ways to secure the bucket.
There are ways to encrypt
things in the bucket, right?
And we're gonna kind of go through
some of those steps as well.
Like I said, we are optimizing for people
getting the stuff in our buckets, but
you can, every once in a while you hear
about somebody who left their bucket
unsecured and lost a bunch of sensitive
data and stuff along those lines.
We are lucky enough that we are trying
to get people to read files out of our
bucket.
We will go out of our way to put
those files closer to their computers
to optimize their ability to
read out of those buckets.
But those are things, think about,
should you be storing,
PDFs of the most recent bill or
something along those lines.
If you work in the healthcare industry,
right, there's obviously
additional concerns around S3 that you
definitely gonna need to consider.
It's effectively a key value store.
The key being the file name,
the value Bing the file, right?
But you can set up directories.
It doesn't really have directories but
it will let you think you do.
Right, so if you call something
like Java scripts/script.js,
the UI will show you a folder that
makes you feel better, right, but
it's effectively flat hierarchy.
There's also a data consistency model.
Just to keep it in mind.
I actually literally had
an argument is a strong word
a lively conversation about
the kind of second point here,
which is putting stuff in
his immediate updating and
removing objects is eventually consistent.
This is to get you to those 11 nines of
durability they don't just put your file
on one hard drive one place,
they put it many places and
it might take a little bit to get all of
them off all the different places right.
Amazon we'll see this in a little bit
when we start setting up the very first
thing has this idea of regions right
US East 1 US West 2 so on and so forth and
in those are availabilities zones, right?
One of my co workers literally designed
the East Coast ones and US East one and
us these two are different power grids for
a reason.
For us, we are gonna distribute
our files everywhere.
So where you get a little bit of that kind
of reliability from distribution for free,
but for back end engineers like
if a region goes down below to
flip over to a clone of a database
somewhere else makes a ton of sense.
But anyway, updated removing
objects is eventually consistent.
You could update an object and
get a slightly old one for a second.
What we're talking about
this is literally,
that happens very infrequently if ever.
But it is one of those things
that just put in your brain.
If it does happen to you in some case that
is technically what it says on the label
that that could happen in this case.
What is the cost to uploading S3 is free.
You get charged for storage and
you get charged for request.
So putting things into S3, totally free,
keeping them in S3 will cost you.
But we saw at the free tier we got
five gigabytes of free storage and
then we get charged for requests.
But we will figure out how to
limit the requests to our bucket
as much as possible by the end
of this using CloudFront.
If you're really worried about
there's different tiers as well.
There is, hey, this is normal
stuff I wanna put in a bucket,
then there's another tier called
infrequently access which is kinda you're
gonna put in a bucket that's
on a high shelf, right.
Cost you less to keep it up there, but
might cost more to go get it, right?
Then there's all the way
down to intelligent tearing
which will move it to different places for
you.
And finally glacier,
which is we will put that in
the freezer out in the shed, right.
And so you can kind of for
different use cases.
You can also like find cheaper
options as well, but for
the general size of our client side
application since I said that $13
included me never cleaning stuff out
of the bucket ever, right ,yeah.
>> As far as the difference between
cost of uploading and cost of storage my
understanding it right that if you
theoretically uploaded files, files that
were zero byte size would cost you nothing
>> Yeah I mean upload like they will
take your data to charge you for
storing it later they will happily
encourage you to upload as much
as you possibly want to them so
that you will never think about migrating
it to one of their competitors.
[LAUGH] It sounds very generous, but
it's also purposeful in that case.
So with that,
one of the occasional limitations is
that bucket names need to both be unique.
And then for some of the kinda
early stages of this if you're
gonna use it to host a website then
it needs to be the same as the URL.
I think with CloudFront,
we avoid that eventually but
there will be kind of intermediary period,
right?
So it means you have to
go through a fun dance.
You need a domain name and you need
a bucket, they both have to be unique.
Probably figure that out
kind of simultaneously.
Most of the cases that won't be
a big problem because of that, but
there's another reason why
we're gonna switch gears for
a slight moment and we'll go back into S3.
So we're gonna switch gears talk a little
bit about registering a domain name with
route 53.
And the reason that we're going
to do that now before we get
all the way into using S3 is one, we wanna
know that the domain name is available.
Two it takes a little
bit of time to set up.
So mostly gonna do it now and then jump
back into some of the S3 stuff and
get that all set up to buy
ourselves some time for
the domain to get fully registered
everything along those lines.
So we're gonna do that now as well.
So we will revisit,
we are actually using S3 shortly.
But first we are going to make sure
that we can have both a bucket and
a domain name that work together and
also give it some time for that to cook